hhlkyc
shx kj
372
lak

Mass Extinctions:
Cases in which many species 
become extinct within 
a geologically short interval of time are called mass extinctions. 
There was one such event at the end of the 
Cretaceous period(around 70 million years ago). 
There was another, 
even larger, mass 
extinction at the end of the 
Permian period (around 250 million years ago). 
The Permian event has attracted much less attention 
than other mass extinctions because mostly unfamiliar 
species perished at that time.
American paleontologists 
David Raup and John Sepkoski, 
who have studied extinction rates in a number of fossil groups, 
suggest that episodes of increased extinction have 
recurred periodically, 
approximately every 26 million years since the 
mid-Cretaceous period. 
The late Cretaceous extinction of the dinosaurs and 
ammonoids was just one 
of the more drastic in a whole series of such recurrent 
extinction episodes.
The possibility that mass extinctions may recur 
periodically has given rise to such hypotheses 
as that of a companion star 
with a long-period orbit deflecting other bodies from 
their normal orbits, 
making some of them fall to Earth as meteors and causing widespread 
devastation upon impact.
Of the various hypotheses attempting to account for 
the late Cretaceous extinctions, 
the one that has attracted the most attention 
in recent years is the asteroid-impact hypothesis 
first suggested by Luis and Walter Alvarez. According to this hypothesis, 
Earth collided with an asteroid with an estimated diameter of 10 kilometers,
or with several asteroids, the combined mass of which was comparable.
The force of collision spewed large amounts of debris into the atmosphere, 
darkening the skies for several years before the finer particles settled.
The reduced level of photosynthesis 
led to a massive decline in plant life of all kinds, 
and this caused massive starvation 
first of herbivores and subsequently of carnivores.
The mass extinction would have occurred very suddenly under this hypothesis.
One interesting test of the Alvarez hypothesis is 
based on the presence of the rare-earth element iridium (Ir). 
Earth¡¯s crust contains very little of this element, 
but most asteroids contain a lot more. 
Debris thrown into the atmosphere by an asteroid collision 
would presumably contain large amounts of iridium, 
and atmospheric currents would carry this material 
all over the globe. A search of sedimentary deposits 
that span the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods 
shows that there is a dramatic increase in the abundance of iridium 
briefly and precisely at this boundary.
This iridium anomaly offers strong support for the Alvarez hypothesis 
even though no asteroid itself has ever been recovered.
An asteroid of this size would be expected
to leave an immense crater, even if the asteroid itself 
was disintegrated by the impact. 
The intense heat of the impact would produce heat-shocked quartz 
in many types of rock. Also, large blocks 
thrown aside by the impact would form secondary craters 
surrounding the main crater. 
To date, several such secondary craters 
have been found along Mexico¡¯s Yucatan Peninsula,
and heat-shocked quartz has been found both in Mexico and in Haiti.
A location called Chicxulub, along the Yucatan coast, 
has been suggested as the primary impact site.

1. Paragraph 1 supports which of the following statements 
about mass extinctions?
?They take place over a period of 70 million years.
?They began during the Cretaceous period.
?They eliminate many animal species that exist at the time they occur.
?They occur every 250 million years.

2. According to paragraph 2, scientists base their belief 
that a mass extinction is going on at present on which of the following?
?The speed with which mass extinctions are happening today 
is similar to the speed of past extinctions.
?The number of species that have died out since 
the last extinction event is extremely large.
?Mass extinctions occur with regularity and it is time for another one.
?Fossil records of many marine species have disappeared.

3. The word extended in the passage is closest in meaning to
? specific
? unlimited 
? reasonable
? long

4. According to paragraph 3, each of the following 
has been proposed as a possible cause of mass extinctions EXCEPT
?habitat destruction
?continental movement
?fierce interspecies competition
?changes in Earth's temperature

5. Paragraph 3 supports which of the 
following ideas about mass extinctions?
?Scientists know the exact causes of most mass extinctions.
?Mass extinctions are unlikely to happen again in the future.
?Insects, flowering plants, and bottom-feeding 
predators in the oceans tend to be the first organisms to 
disappear during episodes of mass extinctions.
?Some mass extinctions occurred on land and 
in the seas at the same time.